# COVID-19-Ventilator-Data-NY-Hospital-Data-in-Python by Adam M. Lang
This is an analysis I conducted in Python as a final project for my General Assembly Python class. It is an analysis of COVID-19 hospital data for Ventilator usage across the USA using the Definitive Healthcare Data set. It consists of exploratory data analysis and using Linear Regression to compare ventilator usage to the number of ICU beds per hospital. 
The main findings were as follows: For every 1 increase in ICU beds there is a 0.049 increase in Avg Ventilator Usage, For every 1 increase in Number of Staffed hospital beds there is a 0.021 increase in Avg Ventilator Usage and For every 1 increase in Potential Bed Capacity there is a 0.009 increase in Avg Ventilator Usage.
Summary: The Number of ICU beds is a better predictor of average increase in ventilator usage which makes sense since most ventilators are used in ICU beds, although it seems number of staffed beds is not far behind. Another interesting finding was that the VA hospitals which have the least number of ICU beds had a direct positive correlation to number of ventilators used since they were of lower capacity than the rest of the larger hospital centers. 

The second part of the notebook uses a different data set where an API is called from NY.gov website looking at real time COVID-19 data regarding tests conducted and positive results for counties in NY State. I chose to focus on the counties (boroughs) of NYC as well as 2 surrounding counties (Rockland, Westchester). Again exploratory data analysis was conducted as well as linear regression comparing number of positive tests to new positive cases, cumulative number of tests to new positive cases, and cumulative number of positive tests to number of new positive cases. The most interesting finding of this analysis was: As the cumulative number of tests increases by 1 the number of new positives is predicted to start to decrease by .011. Overall the number of new positive tests will have small increases as the cumulative number of positives increase, but a slighty larger increase (0.36) as the number of tests increases. Is this a sign the curve is starting to flatten in NY State?
